h1. Basic introduction
Communication between server and client is going on through Pusher (pusherapp.com). This document is a list of commands and their descriptions.

In essence, this might be a contract between client and server parts. Since we're migrating to Sproutcore that might be specifically important.

That document was extracted out of existing code parts, no fancy investigation. Just getting stuff together to one place, preparing codebase / docs for integration specs.

h2. Events

h3. 1. 'build:queued:'
  * Prepends build to the jobs list view.
<pre>
    {
      :build => {
        :id=> ..,
        :number=> ..
      },
      repository=> {
        :id=> ..,
        :slug=> ..
      }
    }
</pre>

h3. 2. 'build:started:'
  Build started may be triggered for an existing repository, for new one and for child build of a matrix build.
  Here are several use cases:
  * Displays build on the "current" build tab.
  * Removes the job from the jobs list view.
  * Updates the repository list entry and moves it to the top of the list
  * Adds the build to the repository builds collection
  * Updates the build summary of the "current" build tab
  * In case it's a child build of a matrix
<pre>
    {
      :build => {
        :id => ..,
        :repository_id => ..,
        :parent_id  => ..,
        :number => ..,
        :commit => ..,
        :branch => ..,
        :message => ..,
        :status => ..,
        :log => ..,
        :started_at => ..,
        :finished_at => ..,
        :committed_at => ..,
        :committer_name => ..,
        :committer_email => ..,
        :author_name => ..,
        :author_email => ..,
        :config => ..
      },
        :repository: {
        :id => ..,
        :slug => ..
      }
    }

    for matrix build:
    {
      :build => {
        :id => ..,
        :parent_id  => ..,
      },
      :repository: {
        :id => ..,
        :slug => ..
      }
    }
</pre>
h3. 3. 'build:expanded':
  Triggered when the build matrix is expanded.
  * Updates the repository view to show the build matrix
<pre>
    {
      :repository = >{
        :id = >3
      },
      :build = >{
        :id => 11,
        :config => {
          rvm => ['1.8.7', '1.9.2']
        },
        :matrix => [{
          :id => 12,
          :number => '4.1',
          :config => {
            :rvm: '1.8.7'
          }
        },
        {
          :id => 13,
          :number => '4.2',
          :config => {
            :rvm => '1.9.2'
          }
        }]
      }
    }
</pre>

h3. 4. 'build:finished':
   Is triggered when worker finished build for the whole repo or child build from matrix.
   Status 0 - build was successfull. Status 1 - failed.
   * Updates the repository list item
   * Updates the build summary
<pre>
    {
      :repository => {
        id => 2
      },
      :build => {
        :id => 10,
        :status => 0,
        :finished_at => '2010-11-12T17:00:10Z'
      }
    }

    {
      :repository => {
        :id => 1
      },
      :build=> {
        :id => 3,
        :status => 0,
        :finished_at => '2010-11-12T17:00:10Z'
      }
    }


    {
      :repository => {
        :id => 1
      },
      :build => {
        :id => 4,
        :status => 0,
        :finished_at => '2010-11-12T17:00:00Z',
        :parent_id => 3
      }
    },
</pre>
h3. 5. 'build:log':
  Is fired up whenever one of the workers dispatched message about the build.

  * appends the logged chars to the build log
<pre>
    {
      :repository => {
        :id => 2
      },
      :build => {
        :id => 10,
        :_log=> 'with appended chars'
      }
    }

    {
      :repository => {
        id=> 1
      },
      :build => {
        :id => 4,
        :parent_id => 3,
        :_log=> 'something'
      }
    }
</pre>