h1. Setup Travis on Heroku

There are a few steps necessary to set up Travis on Heroku.

h3. 1. Create a config/travis.yml file

There's an example file provided that you can copy:

$ cp config/travis.example.yml config/travis.yml

h3. 2. Create an app on Heroku

$ heroku create my-travis

h3. 3. Setup addons

$ heroku addons:add redistogo:nano
$ heroku addons:add sendgrid:free

h3. 4. Get the RedisToGo key

Go to the configuration page for the redistogo addon of your application:

https://api.heroku.com/myapps/my-travis/addons/redistogo:nano

And copy the Redis URL to your config/travis.yml file (replacing @YOUR_REDIS_URL@). The Redis URL should look similar to this:

redis://redistogo:1234567890abcdefghijklmnopqrstuv@foo.redistogo.com:9999/

h3. 5. Register a pusher account and get the API key

Register an account on http://pusher.com. Go to the API access pane of your Pusher app and copy the configuration values:

https://app.pusherapp.com/apps/YOUR_APP_ID/api_access

You want the @app_id@, @key@ and @secret@. Copy them to the @pusher@ section of the travis.yml file.

h3. 6. Register a OAuth application on Github

Go to http://github.com/account/applications and register an application so one can log in via OAuth2. Enter a name and use the heroku URL for both "URL" and "Callback".

E.g. the Github OAuth app for http://travis-ci.org looks like this:

Name: Travis
URL: http://travis-ci.org
Callback: http://travis-ci.org

Grab the cliend ID and secret that Github has generated for you and paste them to the travis.yml file in the @oauth2@ section.

h3. 7. Configure your Heroku app

Now that you've got your config/travis.yml complete you can push this configuration to Heroku. Travis provides a Rake task to make this easy:

$ rake heroku:config

This will push the config values contained in the @production@ section of your travis.yml file to Heroku.

h3. 8. Migrate the Heroku database

$ heroku db:migrate
$ heroku restart

There you go.

You should now be able to go to http://my-travis.heroku.com and be able to sign in via Github.

Please let us know if anything is missing or wrong with these instructions.

h1. Setup a Travis worker

Basically, in order to setup a worker that runs Travis build jobs all you need to do is update the @config/travis.yml@ file and start the worker daemon.

First, get the code:

$ git clone git@github.com:travis-ci/travis-ci.git
$ cd travis-ci
$ cp config/travis.example.yml travis.yml

To get the Travis key go to your Travis app, log in via Github and go to your profile page on http://travis-ci.org/profile. Copy the key and update the @rails@ URL in your config/travis.yml. **Also** update the @redis@ URL with your RedisToGo URL from above.

Now you can try starting the worker with:

$ script/worker

That won't daeomnize the worker of course, and it will stay unmonitored. Instead we're using @god@ to monitor and restart the worker:

$ god -c config/resque.god
